---
layout: post
title: "Why Octopress?"
date: 2012-08-30 18:08
comments: false
categories: software
---

Writing a blog for myself has never been a priority for me until about a year ago. Until then I thought, all I need is a portfolio site, all I need is Wordpress, never use anything else because that is the best setup for a designer and if I ever need a blog I can just switch a few options in Wordpress and add a blog to my site. 

I realized something, and I think it is an important lesson to learn if you ever are trying to decide what software to use for anything, just use something simple that does the basics. I could use Wordpress as I have in the past, but I really don't need an administrative interface to write, and I love using my text editor.

Speaking of my text editor, another choice of software recently lead me to this conclusion also. I recently made the switch from TextMate to Sublime Text 2, but somewhere in the middle I played with a few "other" text editors and IDEs as most people do when trying to make a decision. When it came down to it, I can just flat out write code faster with Sublime Text 2. I'm not ready to tinker with Chocolat, it was the only editor I haven't spend a couple work days in really testing it's abilities but I don't see it really doing anything that sublime can't already do.

It's definitely a trade-off, but a good one. Octopress has some beautiful syntax highlighting which will really help me talk about new stuff in the future. For example I'll show you an old gist on how to install Sublime Text's command line utility.

{% gist 2293120 %}

This is modified from the official subl documentation to work with a clean install of OS X Lion, I'm assuming nothing in Mountain Lion would change this.